the UN has warned of looming famine in
Northern Gaza where it says 70% of the
population is facing catastrophic hunger
tonight Israel's military has said Aid
deliveries will be scaled up in the
coming days and that the issue is a top
priority it comes after 7 months of war
in which more than 34,000 people in Gaza
have been killed according to the Hamas
run health authority the conflict began
after Hamas attacked Israel on October
the 7th killing about 12200 people and
taking 253 people hostage the un's human
rights director has said Israel may be
using starvation as a weapon of War
Israel rejects this but what is life
like for people struggling to find food
while under Israeli bombardment Israel
and Egypt won't allow the BBC to report
from inside Gaza but BBC News has
obtained exclusive access to footage
filmed by an American doctor recent
returned from the north of the territory
where the crisis is most acute fergal
Kean sent us this report you may find
some of it
distressing this is the story of a
doctor who traveled to
Hell samatar went to help people trapped
by
War he usually works in a high-tech
Hospital in
Chicago in Gaza his skills and mental
strength will be tested to their limits
immediately upon crossing the border we
were met with that familiar stench of
just millions of
people uh packed on top of each other
living together uh in some Pockets the
air you breathe you you feel like you're
decaying just breathing it um because
there are just so many people
the crisis is
constant lives in the
balance one the wounded and the
lost the mother who will not leave the
side of her dead boy I'm here here I'm
you have no CT scans no CT scans so you
just watch them and hope for the best
yes Ramy with shrapnel in his brain but
no equipment to properly investigate the
damage you
okay long
day it is the great Paradox of all war
that in the midst of Slaughter so many
will risk their lives for
Humanity one here the doctor whose
daughter was killed Comforts ramy's
mother
[Music]
ni but samatar must now travel North
where the UN Human Rights Chief alleges
Israel may be using starvation as a
weapon of War Israel rejects this saying
un figures are wrong and blames delays
and distribution on the UN and Aid
agencies in Cel adwan Hospital the
Desolation caused by hunger baby nahad 3
months
old a 22-year-old woman malnourished and
sick photographed just after she
died Haram kadada is dead a victim his
mother says of disease and
malnutrition those who already had
serious medical problems are now acutely
vulnerable Jenna aad before the war
learning the alphabet
she already had a condition that made it
difficult for her to absorb
nutrition now she's bedbound by sickness
and the trauma of what she's seen so
this is Jenna she presented you said as
a
skeleton du to Mal nutrition since he's
just skin and
bone a child Sam had to leave behind
like so many others in this war Jenna's
mom came to me and just was saying I
thought we were coming with you what's
happen happening why why are you going
and we staying and uh it's because um
the Convoy was only approved for the
delivery of of food and fuel and not for
um taking any patients
back but memories of War have their own
way of following as Sam knows
well I left a piece of my soul in Gaza
and I hope I do hope to go back I'd say
it's the best time of my life but the
worst time of my life best time because
of the people but the worst time because
of all the horrors you
[Music]
witness Sam managed to organize Jenna's
evacuation to the
South today our cameraman visited and
found a child whose sickness made worse
by War has left her mother feeling
hopeless what can I do she can't be
treated and her mental state is very
difficult she doesn't talk at all
whenever anyone talks to her her
situation is bad and as a mom I cannot
do
anything in all of this it is hard to
speak of Hope except to know that gaza's
Medics keep going the steady light of
decency fergal Keen BBC News Jerusalem